Now we're getting to the bread and butter of authentication, we've proven that once we give a sign
in with email and password of a correct email and a correct password, we're able to set or is authenticated
flagged a true because we're reaching the DOT then statement that has the user object.
Now that we've proven that, well, this doesn't scale very well, this won't actually get us anywhere.
So what we want to do is we want to remove this and we want to build an infrastructure that's going
to last the test of time and be able to scale and potentially be able to change.
So you guessed that we're going to need a service.
So let's create a new folder authentication.
And in that authentication folder, we're going to create a new file authentication service.
DARGIS This file is going to be the entry point for all of the logic that goes into the service.
And it's going to be very simple.
It's going to be a light wrapper around the firebase method that we just called, which was the login
request.
And that login request is going to look a little something like this.
We're going to create a function const login request where we have an email and a password, and then
we're going to do Firebase thought Auth Sinon with email and password.
So it's a light wrapper around just it.
But the bread and butter of this is going to be the context.
So when we create the context, authentication context, which is what we want to do is we want to do
the same thing that we've always done.
We want to import the user state and the create context with react.
And we're also going to import Firebase because we may need a function from it at some point.
So let's just set the scene here.
Now, if we do export CONSED off context, authentication context and then we do an expert course of
the authentication context provider, what we know is that what we need to return in order for our context
to share it state is the authentication context thought provider.
And if we if we close that off, what we can see here is that we're going to need to return the children.
So let's just quickly grab those off the props.
Once we do that, we can save and now we have everything in our authentication context provider in order
for it to wrap, but it doesn't have any state yet.
So what do we need to return as the value to every function?
Well, what we need to return is the user.
Well, we're obviously going to have a user object at some point.
We're going to have to return, whether it's loading or not.
We're going to have to return an error and we're going to have to return on login, which is going to
be our login request.
OK, knowing that, what what does this look like?
Well, we're going to have to set up our state in order for us to properly be able to return these values
because they currently don't exist.
And what we what we need to do here is we need to make sure that every single value from the state is
being fulfilled somewhere.
Now we're going to declare a function that's going to be called CONSED on login.
Now, you may be wondering, what does this function going to do and how is it going to work?
Well, first of all, it's going to take in the email and the password.
And it's going to allow us to be able to trigger our log in function, and by being able to trigger
our log in function, we're going to be able to properly log a user in, but also track all of the state.
Now, we're going to need to import our login request from our login service so that authentication
service, now that we have our login request, we can say login requests start then.
Well, first of all, we need to give it the email and password.
Once we give it the email and the password, we can say DOT then.
And when we trigger the method, what we can do is we can say, well, if we are in our dot, then we
have our user.
So let's go ahead and let's set our user to user.
Let's also set is loading to true when we trigger the method.
And let's set up the falls when we succeed.
But what about the case?
Well, then we're going to add a catch and we're going to say when the air comes in.
We're going to set is loading to false and we're going to set the error to the error.
And that's going to allow us the full let's just quickly call this you, not the conflict with the other
scope of user here.
Now, this is going to allow us the full feature fledged functionality of login.
And with that, we can now go and actually build out our login screen because we're passing through
all the values, but first first what we need to do is we need to make sure that the authentication
context provider is available at the top level.
So with that, we can then utilize all of the functionality subsequently in the navigation.
OK, authentication context provider from authentication.
Slash authentication, but context, let's just remove the end here.
And there we go, authentication context is locked and loaded and clearly available because our app
is loading.
And so with that being all set up, let's go ahead and look at how we're going to build out our navigation
for authentication.